words

Guidance for the development of College Outcome Agreements: 2020-21 to 2022-23Issue date:

Reference:
 
Summary:


FAO:
7 October 2019

SFC/GD/20/2019

Process and framework for developing and negotiating College Outcome                     Agreements.

College Principals and regional strategic bodiesFurther information:	
Contact: Ken Rutherford
Job title: Assistant Director: Outcomes 
Directorate: Access, Skills and Outcome Agreements
Tel: 0131 313 6618
Email: krutherford@sfc.ac.uk




Scottish Funding Council
Apex 2
97 Haymarket Terrace
Edinburgh
EH12 5HD
T 0131 313 6500
F 0131 313 6501
www.sfc.ac.uk









	



Contents
Foreword	1
Introduction	2
Key Dates	2
Outcome Agreement Priorities For Ay 2020-21	4
Section 1: The Learner	4
     Letter Of Guidance Priorities	4
          Access And Learning	4
          Mental Health And Wellbeing	5
          Gender	5
          Student Voice	6
     SFC Continuing Priorities	6
          Equality And Diversity	6
          Access And Inclusion Funds	6
          Care-Experienced Students	6
          Veterans	7
          Carers And Estranged Students	7
          BSL	7
Section Two: The System	7
     Letter Of Guidance Priorities	8
          Skills Alignment	8
          Developing The Young Workforce (DYW)	8
          The Apprenticeship Family	9
          Early Learning And Childcare	9
          Public Health	10
          Stem Education And Training	10
          Digital	10
          Climate Change Emergency	10
          Skills Action Plan For Rural Scotland	10
     SFC Continuing Priorities	11
          Gaelic	11
          English For Speakers Of Other Language Provision (ESOL)	11
          Quality Reporting	11
          Professional Standards	12
Section Three: Innovation	12
          Effective Knowledge Exchange And Innovation	12
Table 1: SFC’s Framework For Outcome Agreements Ay 2020-21: Commitments, Strategies And Evidence Of Progress	14
Table 2: SFC’s National Performance Measures For 2020-21	18
Outcome Agreement National Measures Template	19
Contact Details	19

Annexes
Annex A: Self-evaluation report 
Annex B: Technical guidance on SFC’s measures of progress 









Foreword
Education is the Scottish Government’s defining mission, and, as the national strategic body for colleges and universities, the Scottish Government has charged the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) with driving forward excellence and equity across the education and skills landscape in Scotland. The SFC is committed to working with Scotland’s universities and colleges to make Scotland the best place in the world to learn, to educate, to research, and to innovate. 

Outcome Agreements are a mechanism for engagement between SFC and institutions and provide colleges and universities with an opportunity to describe how they contribute towards this mission. Working in partnership with our institutions, we want the almost 490,000 students in our universities and colleges to have a high-quality learning experience, to be supported to succeed in their studies, and to be equipped to flourish in employment, further study and fulfilling lives. 

Furthermore, we want this opportunity to be available to people from all backgrounds and are therefore committed to working with our institutions to continue to implement the recommendations of the Commission on Widening Access (CoWA) in its ‘A Blueprint for Fairness’.1 

Within the context of the National Performance Framework2, where we deliver against each of the 11 National Outcomes, our Strategic Framework3 sets out our core objectives: to invest in accessible education; to invest in excellent research and innovation; to ensure our education system is sustainable and responsive; and to be outcome focused. Through close working with the college and university sectors, and continued alignment with our partner enterprise and skills agencies through the Enterprise and Skills Strategic Board, we commit to continued improvement in productivity, equality, wellbeing and sustainability to deliver the Scottish Government’s ambition for sustained, inclusive growth.



Introduction
1. In their Outcome Agreements (OAs) for AY 2020-21, we ask institutions to focus on the specific priorities that have been identified for SFC by the Scottish Government and outlined in the Ministerial Letter of Guidance4. These priorities are detailed below. 
2. In addition, institutions are also required to report on continuing priorities; those ongoing policy areas that continue to have a role in OAs and remain priorities for both the Scottish Government and the SFC.
3. Finally, reporting on progress for a number of policy areas can be provided in less detail where this can be done with hyperlinks to strategic and other documentation. An example of this would be institutional commitments provided in a Gender Action Plan (GAP).
4. Further detail on reporting requirements is included in the Framework for OAs in Table 1 below.
5. As in previous years, we ask that institutions show their ambitions for national priorities over the coming three year period and that baselines, milestones and aspirations are provided for each of the national measures for the same period. A template for national measures reporting is included at Annex B. A populated version will be provided to colleges in due course.
6. The UK’s planned departure from the EU will be a key consideration for universities and colleges in the coming years. At the time of writing, the terms on which the UK is expected to leave the EU are not yet certain, so we are not able to include specific OA guidance on Brexit at this point. However, we will ask that institutions continue their Brexit preparations, including putting in place contingencies for a ‘no deal’ Brexit. We will continue to engage with institutions on Brexit and provide guidance to assist preparations.5
Key dates
7. We will formally begin AY 2020-21 OA discussions from October 2019, with a well-developed draft due in December, and final OAs submitted by the end of April 2020. SFC will provide full and timely feedback on submissions received from institutions. 
8. The key dates are set out below.




Outcome Agreement Priorities for AY 2020-21
9. In his Letter of Guidance to the SFC of 2 July 2019 the Minister for Further Education, Higher Education and Science set out his expectations and priorities for the coming year. Those relevant to the college sector are summarised below, alongside SFC’s continuing priorities, and are set out in the OA Framework in Table 1. The Framework for OAs also provides detail of the measures of progress required to clearly illustrate the sector’s role in delivering on these priorities. 
10. Please note that priorities can be removed, added or amended by SFC if, for example, further guidance is received from the Scottish Government.
Section 1: The Learner
Scottish Government strategic priority: To provide the best student experience, seamlessly connected for learners of all backgrounds.

SFC core objective6: To invest in education that is accessible to learners from all backgrounds, gives a high-quality learning experience, supports them to succeed in their studies, and equips them to flourish in employment, further study and fulfilling lives.

Letter of Guidance Priorities
Access and learning
11. It is a priority that improvement continues, at pace, for the implementation of the recommendations made by the Commission for Widening Access. 
12. For the college sector our ambitions to implement the recommendations made by the Commission for Widening Access also include an expectation of a step change in the number of HN students progressing to university with advanced standing. This has also been set as a priority in the university OA guidance. 
13. The SFC no longer expects colleges to grow their intake of the 10% most deprived communities if they are already achieving good intake (i.e. that is representative of the regions they deliver to). However, we do expect that these students should have comparable successful completion rates to those of the wider student cohort. Where this is not the case we expect colleges to outline ambitious targets to close this gap.  
Mental health and wellbeing
14. Institutions are asked to report on their progress in implementing their Mental Health Strategy, Student Mental Health Agreement and progress with implementation of the Scottish Government funded mental health counsellors’ programme. Institutions should provide a weblink to their Mental Health Strategy.
Student safety
15. Institutions should work with staff and Students’ Associations to ensure that there is a common understanding of acceptable behaviours and that effective mechanisms are in place to respond to allegations of harassment or behaviours that do not meet the values of the institution. 
Gender 
16. Tackling student subject imbalances, imbalances in retention by gender and balanced gender representation on Boards and at senior levels remains a priority. Colleges should reflect on progress and outcomes in their OA and activities and work being undertaken to achieve this should be outlined in the institution’s gender action plan. As such, colleges are also asked to include a link in their OA to their GAP. 
17. Institutions should continue to work with their Students’ Associations on adopting and working with the Equally Safe in Higher Education Toolkit   (including its adaptation for colleges)7. Institutions should outline in this OA and in their OA discussions how they are developing and putting in place reporting systems, and data capture arrangements, in respect to gender based violence; and how they are implementing support systems for survivors of gender based violence. In addition to this, institutions should outline their commitment to supporting and enhancing equality for applicants, students and staff who are trans or gender diverse in their OA, with detail on activity given in their institutional GAP.
18. Institutions should report on progress with meeting the requirements of the Gender Representation on Public Boards (Scotland) Act 2018. Institutions should also reflect on progress with achieving gender balance at senior levels and highlight how they are proactively working towards achieving these outcomes.  
19. We are currently developing guidance requiring institutions to re-new their institutional GAPs. These plans should outline how the institution will achieve the gender outcomes outlined in their OA. A weblink to the institution’s GAP must be provided in their OA. 
Student voice
20. Colleges are encouraged to ensure that their student bodies are offered meaningful opportunities to fully engage with the development and monitoring of OAs. Colleges should also provide examples of learners developing and delivering responses to policy priorities such as student mental health, healthy living initiatives etc.
SFC continuing priorities
Equality and Diversity
21. The Scottish Funding Council is working with the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) to help Scotland’s universities and colleges to improve their performance in meeting the public sector equality duty. The Commission will help SFC to strengthen its efforts to advance equality for all the people who are, or could be, part of Scotland’s universities and colleges. The focus of this joint initiative will be on helping universities and colleges identify equality outcomes which will tackle the most significant and persistent inequalities in the sector, and take action to achieve these outcomes. We will also be considering how best to ensure that working and reporting on the public sector equality duty is streamlined with existing outcome and reporting systems.
22. Institutions should include a web link to their published Mainstreaming Report and Equality Outcomes (as per the Equality Act) in their OA and ensure that ambitions for improvements are clearly articulated in their OA document. This should evidence how institutions intend to use the places and funding allocated to them by SFC to advance equality. As part of this colleges should continue to seek improvements in the reporting and analysis of equality data. SFC would also encourage institutions to consider signing up to the Disability Confident Scheme.8 
Access and Inclusion funds
23. All college regions are required to publish – and provide a link to – an updated Access and Inclusion Strategy. Updated guidance is available on the SFC website. Institutions who do not report on the use of this funding in their Outcome Agreement and/or who do not use these funds as outlined in our guidance may have these funds clawed back.
Care-experienced students
24. SFC has updated the National Ambition for Care-Experienced Students9 which sets the sector targets for intake and retention until 2022-23, in line with a vision of no difference in outcomes between care-experienced students and their peers by 2030.
25. The survey of care-experienced students in Scottish colleges and universities10, carried out by CELCIS on behalf of SFC, led to eight key learning points and 
18 recommendations. We ask colleges to work, where relevant, towards implementation of these recommendations and to focus their reporting on their commitment to the retention and success of these students. Institutions should provide a weblink to their Corporate Parenting Plan.   
Veterans 
26. We ask colleges to sign the Armed Forces Covenant which includes support to Service children and their families, and demonstrate their current and future commitment to students who are veterans, in relation to the mapping and consideration of their existing skills and qualifications and in relation to articulation pathways. Additionally, colleges are asked to report on their engagement with the Veterans Steering Group and update on progress made in relation to the key recommendations made by the Veterans Commissioner.11 
Carers and estranged students
27. Colleges should include a statement on their current activities to support carers and estranged students12, including participation in Going Further for Student Carers and work with Stand Alone and confirm their commitment to take the Stand Alone Pledge13. Where known please also state the numbers of students who identify as a carer or are estranged from their families. 
BSL 
28. Colleges are required to provide a link to an up to date BSL plan and describe how the institution will govern its plan.

See Framework at Table 1 for other reporting required in this section.
Section Two: The System
Scottish Government strategic priority: To provide high quality learning in a system where institutions work in partnership and demonstrate the highest standards of governance and financial accountability

SFC Core objective: To ensure colleges, universities and specialist institutions form part of a successful, world-leading, coherent and sustainable system of education that responds effectively to the future needs of learners and the skills needs of the economy and society, enhances our rich cultural life, and strengthens Scotland’s international connections.
Letter of Guidance Priorities
Skills alignment	
29. The impact of investment in skills can be enhanced by increased planning alignment between SFC and SDS. SFC will continue to work with SDS to build upon the work undertaken to date to implement the 5-stage planning model in AY 2021-22. This model seeks to align provision with the needs of learners, employers and the economy. Pilot activity is currently taking place in a few specific areas to test the model and the evidence base. In AY 2020-21 SFC will engage with the sector to inform on progress with the pilot activity and any action required in response to this work. 
The apprenticeship family
30. Recognising the importance of apprenticeships to Scottish Government Youth Employment, Economic and STEM education and training strategies, colleges are asked to report in their OAs their plans for the development of new Foundation Apprenticeship opportunities and other work-based learning pathways to ensure they meet the needs of all employers and that the offer of apprenticeships at all levels is supported.
Developing the Young Workforce (DYW)
31. AY 2020-21 is the final year of the seven year programme to introduce DYW. There is a clear expectation that SFC and colleges demonstrate delivery of Ministerial and DYW Programme Board expectations of systemic change in the planning and delivery of vocational learning for young people at Senior Phase across Scotland through school-college partnership. 
32. The Government has announced a review of the Senior Phase to ensure that young people have the best possible opportunities. It will be important that this Review is informed by evidence and impact from DYW.
33. Colleges, therefore, are asked to produce a DYW Progress Report as an annex to their main OA document to support development of robust evidence of the sector’s contribution and progress. Details of what we are seeking of colleges in the Progress Report can be found on the SFC website.
34. DYW is about delivering a work relevant vocational education experience for all young people, including those at risk of missing out on achieving their potential. A summary of the DYW aims which SFC is working with partners to deliver is:
* Create a systemic approach to joint planning and delivery of the Senior Phase curriculum based on school-college partnership.
* Increase the volume and range of vocational options being taken up by young people.
* Support economic skills need. 
* Support the interests of young people by increasing choice, success and destination outcomes at Senior Phase.

35. From AY 2021-22 the aims and outcomes of DYW will become an embedded part of OA negotiations and the 15-24 Learner Journey programme. 
Early learning and childcare
36. The Scottish Government’s expansion in early learning and childcare (ELC) will continue to have a significant impact on the demand for qualified childcare practitioners and managers beyond 2020/21. Colleges are required to maintain their commitment to increase the number of enrolments and graduates to create a highly skilled, diverse and dedicated workforce. 
37. More flexible training options and efforts to increase the number of learners from minority ethnic groups and those with disabilities will be critical in providing a diverse workforce to meet the targets. Colleges are required to report to SFC on progress made in delivering ELC provision. Colleges should also embed the learning from the Men in Early Years (MIEY) project and work collaboratively with local authorities, employers and other organisations to support the aims of the ELC SIP, the Blueprint for 2020 and the SFC GAP. 
Public health
38. Colleges are asked to use their OAs to illustrate and assess their current contributions to both Scotland’s public health priorities and local priorities identified through CPPs through the provision of case studies that particularly focus on local engagement to support the delivery of local priorities.
STEM education and training
39. Colleges should ensure their STEM activity aligns to the National STEM Strategy’s four aims of Excellence, Equity, Inspiration and Connection. Institutions should ensure their STEM strategies are linked to these priorities and engage with and further expand the work of the college-led STEM Hubs, particularly around STEM engagement with young people and Career Long Professional Learning (CLPL) for teaching and research staff. OAs should provide a link to the institutional STEM strategy. 
40. SFC will also engage with colleges to evaluate and promote placement activity in STEM subjects. We will consider the extent to which this aspiration becomes part of the implementation of the 5-stage skills alignment model.
Digital
41. Colleges are required to report on how digital skills development has been improved across all subject areas for staff and students. In addition colleges should continue to support and engage with the Digital Skills Partnership to enhance links with industry and universities. This engagement should result in greater provision of industry led CLPL for lecturers to enhance the provision of skills. 
Climate change emergency
42. In the light of the First Minister’s acknowledgement of the global climate emergency14, colleges are asked to share with SFC their progress in creating strategies and plans to reduce their net carbon emissions. We would hope to see these emerging plans and strategies include your reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, plastic pollution and your contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals15.
Skills Action Plan for rural Scotland
43. Relevant colleges are required to illustrate their contribution to the delivery of the objectives of the Action Plan – addressing skills shortages, talent retention and attraction, and demographic challenges through enhanced work-based learning and access to education and skills provision in rural areas.
SFC continuing priorities
Gaelic
44. OAs should include a response to the requirements of public bodies, outlined by the National Gaelic Plan for 2018-2316. This should include actions in support of parity of esteem for Gaelic and to encourage its visibility and use by speakers among their staff, students and others with whom they engage, as well as maintenance and development of their provision for Gaelic learners.
English for Speakers of Other Language provision (ESOL) 
45. To ensure ESOL provision continues to meet the needs of the region, colleges/regions must continue to work with their local Community Planning Partnership (CPP) and discuss the provision and funding of ESOL – whether that be delivered in the college or in the community. To demonstrate this collaborative working, colleges/regions must prepare joint delivery plans with CPPs and share them with the relevant Outcome Agreement manager. The joint plan should provide detail of: 
* The ESOL need for the region and how local need is being met by the college/region and the CPP.
* Credit bearing and non-credit bearing activity and funding allocated to each category of activity.
* How ESOL activity in the region fits into a learner journey/pathway, i.e. the pipeline of provision which supports progression into formal accredited college courses, where that is appropriate. 

46. Links to documents related to these plans should be included in OAs. 
Quality reporting
47. Quality assurance and enhancement underpins the OA process and remains a continuing requirement of colleges and a condition of funding. SFC and Education Scotland have developed Quality Arrangements to enable SFC to discharge its statutory duty for the assessment and enhancement of quality. 
48. Annex A of this document provides information on college quality assurance requirements and OA self-evaluation reporting. The following guidance documents should also be consulted: 
* How good is our college? (SFC, ES December 2016). 
* Arrangements for assuring and improving the quality of provision and services in Scotland’s colleges

49. Building on the evidence contained in colleges’ Evaluative Report and Enhancement Plans (see Annex A), we will provide a data-focused assessment of progress for each institution to discuss with colleges. This evidence will also be used to aid negotiations over future OAs, and to help inform national priorities and areas for collaboration. 
Professional standards
50. The Government is supporting the college sector toward professional registration of its lecturers. Colleges should engage with the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS) on registration to ensure that they have planned the necessary actions to have registration in place within the timescale that is still to be agreed, but which we anticipate to commence by the start of AY 2021-22. Colleges should work with GTCS on how progress can be reported. 
See Framework at Table 1 for other reporting required in this section.
Section Three: Innovation
Scottish Government strategic priority: To support Scotland’s global reputation as a Science and Research Nation synonymous with high quality teaching, research, knowledge exchange and innovation.

SFC Core Objective: To invest in excellent research and innovation that adds to current knowledge, delivers economic and societal value, enhances Scotland’s international reputation and attractiveness, and makes the world around us prosperous, healthier and more sustainable.
Effective knowledge exchange and innovation
51. Building on the early experiences of responding to the College Innovation Fund pilot activity where appropriate, colleges should ensure they are improving their links with business to stimulate greater economic, social and cultural benefits for Scotland, and that they continue to develop the entrepreneurial and enterprise skills of their students. This should include how colleges are contributing to the priorities of the Enterprise and Skills Strategic Board, how they are exploiting the opportunities for partnership with other colleges and universities and how they are engaging with Innovation Centres and other appropriate partner organisations. Case studies that illustrate this should be included in the OA.
See Framework at Table 1 for other reporting required in this section.



Table 1: SFC’s Framework for Outcome Agreements AY 2020-21: commitments, strategies and evidence of progress 
Colleges and RSBs for multi-college regions should use this framework to ensure that they report fully on all the priorities detailed in this guidance.

Section One: The Learner

Scottish Government strategic priority: To provide the best student experience, seamlessly connected for learners of all backgrounds.

SFC core objective: To invest in education that is accessible to learners from all backgrounds, gives a high-quality learning experience, supports them to succeed in their studies, and equips them to flourish in employment, further study and fulfilling lives.
Priorities 
Measures of progressLetter of Guidance:
* Demonstrate the institution’s response to the recommendations made by the Commission for Widening Access. For the college sector this relates to measure 7.  Support for the mental health and wellbeing of students and staff – include hyperlinks to Mental Health Strategy and Student Mental Health Agreement.
* Outcomes to tackle gender inequality at subject level. 
* Achieve and maintain gender balanced Boards and Courts.
* Develop and put in place reporting systems, and data capture arrangements, in respect to gender based violence.
* Provide weblink to Gender Action Plan.
* Student Voice - engagement of students’ association representatives in the development of the OA. 

SFC Continuing priorities:
* For measure 1b - please note that the SFC no longer expects a college to grow their intake of the 10% most deprived communities if they can evidence their intake is representative of the region they deliver to. The SFC does expect colleges to outline ambitious targets for the successful completion rates of these students. 
* Provide a weblink to the published Equality Outcomes and Mainstream report and address under-representation from protected characteristic and underrepresented socio-economic groups including:
* Care-experienced - focus reporting on commitment to retention and success and provide link to Corporate Parenting Plan.
* Estranged students - provide evidence of work with Stand Alone/ uptake of Stand Alone Pledge.
* Veterans – commitment to mapping existing skills and qualifications, update on progress made in relation to key recommendations made by Veterans Commissioner, and engagement with the Veterans Steering Group.
* Carers - commitment to participation in Carer Trust Scotland’s Going Further Award.
* Commitment to British Sign Language, link to institution’s BSL Plan.
* Access and Inclusion funds - provide link to updated Access and Inclusion Strategy.(1a) Credits delivered.

(1b) Volume and proportion of Credits delivered to learners in the most deprived 10% postcode areas (i.e. SIMD10 students).

 (1c) The volume and proportion of Credits relating to learners from different protected characteristic groups and care-experienced learners.

(2d) Volume and proportion of Credits delivered at HE level to learners from SHEP schools (i.e. Secondary schools with consistently low rates of progression to higher education).

(4b) Proportion of enrolled SIMD10 students successfully achieving a recognised qualification (FT & PT).

(4d) Proportion of enrolled care-experienced students successfully achieving a recognised qualification.

(7) The number and proportion of successful learners who have achieved HNC (SCQF level 7) or HND (SCQF Level 8) qualifications articulating to degree level courses (SCQF level 9) with advanced standing.
Section Two: The System

Scottish Government strategic priority: To provide high quality learning in a system where institutions work in partnership and demonstrate the highest standards of governance and financial accountability

SFC Core objective: To ensure colleges, universities and specialist institutions form part of a successful, world-leading, coherent and sustainable system of education that responds effectively to the future needs of learners and the skills needs of the economy and society, enhances our rich cultural life, and strengthens Scotland’s international connections.Priorities Measures of progressLetter of Guidance:
* DYW: Colleges are required to produce a DYW Progress Report.
* The apprenticeship family: Reporting on developments.
* Early learning and childcare: Progress update.
* STEM education and training: Link to STEM Strategy.
* Digital: Update on digital skills development.
* Skills Action Plan for rural Scotland – description of regional contribution, where relevant.
* Climate emergency – colleges are required to provide a link to their Climate Action Plan or Sustainability strategy, and describe their engagement with the Sustainable Development Goals and funding opportunities focussing on climate change.
* Gender balance on Boards.
* Public health – Colleges should provide case studies evidencing their contribution to support  local priorities and engagement with Healthy Working Lives Award or similar awards.

SFC Continuing priorities:
* Gaelic – Reporting should include link to updated Gaelic Language Plan.
* ESOL – reporting should include supportive documents, e.g. Joint Delivery Plan, Memorandum of Understanding etc.


(2a) Number of senior phase age pupils studying vocational qualifications delivered by colleges.

(2b) Volume and proportion of Credits delivered to senior phase age pupils studying vocational qualifications delivered by colleges.

(2c) Volume and proportion of Credits delivered to learners at S3 and above as part of 'school-college' provision. 

(3) Volume and proportion of Credits delivered to learners enrolled on STEM courses.

(4a) Proportion of enrolled students successfully achieving a recognised qualification (FT & PT).

(4c) Proportion of senior phase age pupils successfully completing a vocational qualification delivered by colleges.

(4e) Number and proportion of FT FE learners aged 16-19 successfully completing courses.

(5) The number of starts for contracted apprenticeships (e.g. in CITB, SECTT).

(6) The number and proportion of full-time learners with “work experience” as part of their programme of study.

(8) The number and proportion of full-time college qualifiers in work, training and/or further study 3-6 months after qualifying.

(9) Student Satisfaction and Engagement Survey - the percentage of students Overall, satisfied with their college experience.

(10) Gross carbon footprint
Section Three: Innovation

Scottish Government strategic priority: To support Scotland’s global reputation as a Science and Research Nation synonymous with high quality teaching, research, knowledge exchange and innovation.

SFC Core Objective: To invest in excellent research and innovation that adds to current knowledge, delivers economic and societal value, enhances Scotland’s international reputation and attractiveness, and makes the world around us prosperous, healthier and more sustainable.Priorities Measures of progressColleges are asked to summarise their approach to developing and sustaining a culture in which innovation can flourish, and their work with business, industry, and the public sector to find innovative solutions that support economic growth, and impact on our society and culture. Colleges are also asked to continue to provide information on the work they do to develop enterprising mind-sets in their students by providing exposure to entrepreneurial education opportunities e.g. learning by inspiring, sparking interest in starting a business, testing out business ideas etc.


Where appropriate statements should outline plans and/or strategies for:
* Engaging with the innovation landscape in Scotland including Innovation Centres, Interface, Innovation Vouchers, and the Scottish Government’s innovation reforms.
* Responding to opportunities presented through the SFC’s College Innovation Fund.
* Describe the impact and benefits to the college of having received funds through Year 2 of the College Innovation pilot, if they have had a successful bid funded through the call for proposals.
* How entrepreneurial education currently is / will be undertaken in the college.
 Innovation focused case studies, including promotion of outputs, outcomes and impacts.

Detail of interventions in place and/or engagement with specific initiatives exposing staff and students to entrepreneurial / enterprise education. This could include numbers of workshops run for staff and students, events run / attended (such as selling events) or numbers of students supported (referrals / applications to competitions, financial support and/or mentoring).
Table 2: SFC’s National Performance Measures for 2020-21
NumberMeasureMeasure 1 (a)
Measure 1 (b)

Measure 1 (c)Credits delivered (Core / ESF / Core + ESF).
Volume and proportion of Credits delivered to learners in the most deprived 10% postcode areas.
The volume and proportion of Credits relating to learners from different protected characteristic groups and care-experienced.Measure 2 (a) 

Measure 2 (b)

Measure 2 (c) 

Measure 2 (d) Number of senior phase age pupils studying vocational qualifications delivered by colleges.
Volume and proportion of Credits delivered to senior phase age pupils studying vocational qualifications delivered by colleges.
Volume and proportion of Credits delivered to learners at S3 and above as part of 'school-college' provision. 
Volume and proportion of Credits delivered at HE level to learners from SHEP schools (i.e. Secondary schools with consistently low rates of progression to higher education).Measure 3 Volume and proportion of Credits delivered to learners enrolled on STEM courses (TBC). Measure 4 (a) 

Measure 4 (b)

Measure 4 (c)

Measure 4 (d)

Measure 4 (e)Proportion of enrolled students successfully achieving a recognised qualification (FT & PT).
Proportion of enrolled SIMD10 students successfully achieving a recognised qualification (FT & PT).
Proportion of senior phase age pupils successfully completing a vocational qualification delivered by colleges. 
Proportion of enrolled care-experienced students successfully achieving a recognised qualification.
Proportion of enrolled students Full-time FE students aged 16-19 successfully achieving a recognised qualification.Measure 5The number of starts for contracted apprenticeships (including industry bodies such CITB and SECTT).Measure 6
The number and proportion of full-time learners with high quality work placement or work place  “experience” as part of their programme of study. Measure 7  The number and proportion of successful learners who have achieved HNC or HND qualifications articulating to degree level courses with advanced standing.Measure 8  The number and proportion of full-time college qualifiers in work, training and/or further study 3-6 months after qualifying. Measure 9SSES Survey - The percentage of students Overall, satisfied with their college experience.Measure 10Gross carbon footprint.






































Outcome Agreement National Measures template
52. As in previous years, we ask that institutions share their ambitions towards national priorities over the coming three year period and provide milestones and aspirations for each of the national measures. A data template populated with available data up to AY 2017-18 will be sent to institutions in October. This should be included in the initial draft OA submission to SFC in December. 
53. Once the AY 2018-19 FES data becomes available in January, this table will be re-issued to institutions, updated to include AY 2018-19 data. This will allow institutions to revise aspirations, if needs be. At this point, SFC will also issue a ‘summary’ version of the National Measures.
54. SFC requires institutions to submit both versions of their data with the final OA: the former for analysis of individual projections and for aggregation at sector level; and the latter which will be published as part of their final OAs.
Contact details
55. The contact details for all Outcome Agreement Teams can be found on the SFC website. 

1 A Blueprint for Fairness: Final Report of the Commission on Widening Access 
2 Scottish Government National Performance Framework
3 SFC Strategic Framework 2019-2022 
4 SFC Letter of Guidance 2019-20 
5 Brexit and Scottish Colleges and Universities 
6 Scottish Funding Council Strategic Framework 2019-2022 
7 Equally Safe in Higher Education Toolkit 
8 Disability Confident 
9 National Ambition for Care-Experienced Students
10 ‘Being a student with care experience is very daunting’. Findings from a survey of care-experienced students in Scottish colleges and universities
11 https://scottishveteranscommissioner.org/
12 SFC definition: An estranged student is someone who no longer has the support of their family due to a breakdown in their relationship which has led to ceased contact. This might mean biological or adoptive parents or wider family members who have been responsible for supporting a student in the past. Estranged students have no experience of being in care and do not have a corporate parent responsible for them.
13 http://www.thestandalonepledge.org.uk 
14 World Forum on Climate Justice: First Minister's speech
15 Sustainable Development Goals
16 Bòrd na Gàidhlig National Gaelic Language Plan 2018-23
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

13


17


19


